---
title: 'REST API: product -> options'
---

<table><thead><tr><th width="239.4765625">Field</th><th width="168.546875">Type</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>type</td><td>string</td><td><p>Option type that defines its functionality.<br><br>One of:</p><p><code>SELECT</code> - Drop-down list with several options. Users can select only one of the options provided.</p><p><code>RADIO</code>  - Radio buttons. Users can select only one of the options provided.</p><p><code>CHECKBOX</code>  - Checkbox options. Users can select several options at the same time.</p><p><code>TEXTFIELD</code> - Single-line text input field.</p><p><code>TEXTAREA</code> - Multi-lines text input field.</p><p><code>DATE</code> - Date and time selector.</p><p><code>FILES</code> - File uploader for users.</p><p><code>SIZE</code> - Selector for the <strong>product sizes</strong>. Works the same way as radio buttons.</p><p><code>SWATCHES</code> - Selector for the <strong>product colors</strong>. Works the same way as radio buttons.</p></td></tr><tr><td>name</td><td>string</td><td>Product option name. For example: <code>Color</code> or <code>Size</code>.</td></tr><tr><td>nameTranslated</td><td>object <a href="broken-reference">translations</a></td><td>Available translations for product option name.</td></tr><tr><td>choices</td><td>array of objects <a href="broken-reference">choices</a></td><td>List of available option choices for users.<br><br>Only works for the following option types: <code>SELECT</code>, <code>CHECKBOX</code>, <code>RADIO</code>, <code>SIZE</code>, or <code>SWATCHES</code>.</td></tr><tr><td>defaultChoice</td><td>number</td><td>Index of the option's default selection. Can be <code>null</code> (no default option), otherwise starts with <code>0</code>. <br><br>Only works for the following option types: <code>SELECT</code>, <code>CHECKBOX</code>, <code>RADIO</code>, <code>SIZE</code>, or <code>SWATCHES</code>.</td></tr><tr><td>required</td><td>boolean</td><td>Defines if this option is required to add product to the cart.</td></tr><tr><td>useImageAsSwatchSelector</td><td>boolean</td><td><p>Display mode for the color swatches option. Only works with <code>SWATCHES</code> option type.</p><p></p><p>One of:</p><ul><li><code>true</code> - show specific product images when a user choses different color at the storefront.</li><li><code>false</code> - show color swatches defines as hex codes when user chooses different color at the storefront.</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>
